[Docs] Client side caching topic (#1152)
magento-research/pwa-studio: pwa-devdocs/src/technologies/basic-concepts/client-side-caching/index.md

---
title: Client-side caching
---

Client-server communication is slow and expensive.

> Performance is an important feature for any Progressive Web Application(PWA), so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance is an important feature for any Progressive Web Application (PWA), so
```

requests to the server should be minimized.

Offline mode is also a required feature for a PWA.
In offline mode, the application must be able to serve pages that have been recently viewed.

These features are implemented with the help of a client-side cache.

> This local cache stores data from previously fetched resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This local cache stores data from resources as they are fetched.
```

> Future requests to that resource can use the cache in place of a server request to boost performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a resource has been cached, the service worker may consult the cache on subsequent requests for that resource to boost performance.
```

## Service Worker caching

A [service worker][] is a JavaScript file that runs in a separate thread from the main execution thread in a web application.
Service workers can intercept network requests and fetch cached data or store results from a network request into the cache.

### Venia service worker

Venia's service worker behavior is defined in the [`src/sw.js`][] file using Google's [Workbox][] library.

You do not need to use Workbox to define service worker behavior, but

> Workbox makes this task easier by removing boilerplate code that is always used when working with service workers.

Reviewer 2: Helpful clarification. 👍

Venia uses the following [caching strategies][] with its service worker:

#### [Stale-while-revalidate][]

> The stale-while-revalidate strategy tell the service worker to use a cached response if it exists.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The stale-while-revalidate strategy tells the service worker to use a cached response if it exists.
```

> A separate network request is made for that resource and the result is cached for future requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A separate network request is made for that resource and the cache is updated for future requests.
```

This strategy is used when the most up to date version of a resource is not necessary for an application.

| Route pattern                                     | Description          |
| ------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| `/`                                               | The application root |
| `/.\\.js$`                                        | JavaScript files     |

> | `/\/media\/catalog.*\.(?:png|gif|jpg|jpeg|svg)$/` | Catalog image files  |

Reviewer 3: Not sure if Gatsby will treat this differently, but this table isn't showing up correctly:

![Screen Shot 2019-04-23 at 10 25 51 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13182778/56594295-320fef80-65b2-11e9-8818-35e39d90db8f.png)

Author: Looks like GitHub's markdown processor isn't a fan of the `|` inside the regex.
Jekyll's markdown processor seems to be able to build it correctly though.
